How to Resolve Dependency Download Failure During Compilation?
============================================================

During the Apollo compilation process, dependencies are downloaded. How can I resolve the issue of download failure due to network problems?

-  Maintainer: \ daohu527@gmail.com
-  Version: 1.0.0
-  Date: 06/12/2024
-  Description:

Answer
------

Bazel Compilation Cache
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When using Bazel to compile a project, external libraries are often required, and remote code is pulled over the network for compilation. However, when the network is unavailable or the code cannot be pulled, it results in a compilation failure.

To address the issue of offline compilation, Bazel supports obtaining dependency files from a local path. Therefore, by placing the required code packages for the current project into the local cache path, compilation failures due to network issues can be avoided.

Here are the specific steps:

1. Download the dependency files required for Bazel to compile Apollo:

   -  Download the dependency files from
      `Baidu Cloud (n6j2) <https://pan.baidu.com/s/10uwjhZX3vBVmw92ExgCAXw>`__.

2. Copy the downloaded files to the Bazel compilation cache directory:

   .. code:: shell

      # The dependency_files directory contains the dependency files needed for Apollo compilation
      # apollo/.cache/distdir/ is the Bazel cache path

      cp -r dependency_files/* apollo/.cache/distdir/

3. Restart the compilation:

   .. code:: shell

      ./apollo.sh build

By following these steps, you should be able to successfully complete the compilation.
